PLUSES AND MINUSES OF DEVELOPING FRONTPORCH

+ There aren't any successful apps of this type already.
- There's a lot to get to MVP.
- It's hard to explain the concept and to demo it.

MVP

* Sign up / sign in with parent involvement/approval.
* Regular parental reports via email.
* Detect if reports are bouncing, or parent is not looking at them, and suspend account?
* Kids can send simple invitations.
* Architected so calendar sharing can be integrated.

CALENDARING

For the best experience, kids should be able to see calendars shared by their parents, and possibly each other's calendars. The most popular calendaring system is probably Google Calendar. I might want to support Apple's family sharing, too.

I might architect the system so that the mobile apps don't interact with those calendaring systems directly. Instead, the shared calendars would be processed on the server side and the mobile app would get the shared calendar data from the server, perhaps as JSON or in iCalendar format.

Q. Do you need a Google account to have a Google calendar shared with you?

It seems that you do have a Google Calendar account to see shared calendars. You can use any email address to make the Google Calendar account; it doesn't have to be a Gmail account.

Note that I am not talking about Google public calendars here. I am assuming that parents would want to share their calendars privately.

Q. Can a kid have a Google account?

Kids under 13 can only have a Google account that is created and managed with Family Link. Family Link seems to be more developed than when I started using it for Nate's Android phone. It looks like it can be used on iPhone, Chromebooks, and to some extent on web browsers.

Q. What mobile APIs and web APIs does Google Calendar have?

It looksl like they don't distinguish between mobile or server clients. They have a REST API, plus Java, JavaScript, .NET, Objective-C, PHP, and Python wrapper libraries. They are developing Dart, Go, Node.js, and Ruby libraries.

Q. How does Apple family sharing work, as far as calendars and accounts?

Kids under 13 can have an Apple ID under iCloud Family Sharing.

There is a Family calendar that is shared in iCloud Family Sharing.

It looks like the only iCloud calendaring API that may be available for servers to use is CalDAV. It looks like EventKit can be used on iOS. Doesn't look like there is any API for Android.

SERVER FRAMEWORK / LANGUAGE FOR REST API

If I want to go with the most popular framework, Express.js would be the best choice.

If I want to go with a framework that is not quite as popular, but still popular, and doesn't use JavaScript: Python with Flask or Django.

If I want to be avant-garde, Swift server side with Kitura.

NATE'S IDEAS

* If kids are playing a game like basketball, can keep track of scores so that the app can produce rankings. With the rankings you could get rankings for different bonuses / rewards. Can use this gamification to encourage kids to do more activities IRL ("in real life").
